                          Citadel/UX Network Manual
                 See copyright.doc for copyright information
  
     
  OVERVIEW
   
   The fundamental structure of the networker is fairly simple, however, it
has enough features to make it a bit complicated. This is probably the most
difficult part of the entire Citadel/UX package. So before we dive in head
first, let's look at the various network files and directories.
  
 netproc.c                    Does all of the actual network processing.
 rcit.c                       Feeds standard input into the networker, also
                              has the ability to translate UseNet news format
                              into Citadel/UX binary format.
 netmailer.c                  Called by the main program when a user sends a
                              network mail message.
 citmail.c                    A patch to allow Citadel/UX users to receive
                              mail through the normal UUCP mail facility.
 cux2ascii.c                  A filter which translates Citadel/UX binary
                              format to UseNet news format.
 network                      Directory in which all network files reside.
 network/systems              Contains network info for each neighboring system
 network/systems/sysname      Network file for a node called "sysname".
 network/mail.aliases         Aliases for the mailer.
 network/rnews.xref           Cross-references room names to newsgroup names.
 network/mail.sysinfo         Contains routing information for network mail.
 network/filterlist           The "kill file" for your system.
   
  
  SETUP
  
  There are three options in setup which must be properly set. The
first is NODENAME, which must be the same as your uucp system name. The second
is HUMANNODE, which is the "long" full name of your system (for documentation).
The third is FQDN, which is your system's fully qualified domain name.  If
you don't have a domain, just set this value to your NODENAME followed by the
string ".UUCP" (a traditional convention, even if you're not on a UUCP net).
     
 
   SETTING UP SYSTEMS FILES
   
   For each of your neighboring Citadel/UX systems you must create a systems
file. The file is called network/systems/sysname, where sysname is the other
system's node name. The first line contains a command that transfers a spool
file to the network/spoolin directory on the remote system. The string "%s"
will be replaced by the name of the spool file by netproc. You may only use
%s ONCE in the command line. Usually, some sort of UUCP transfer will be used
to do the transfer, but you may use any facility you want, *** as long as the
file ends up in the network/spoolin directory on the remote system ***. In
a typical system, you will probably use uux to pipe the file through the
command "rcit -c" on the remote system. When the remote system receives this
command, it will copy standard input to the network/spoolin directory, and
then begin processing the file as soon as it is there.
   After the command line you should enter the names of all the rooms you
intend to share with this system. Each room name should be followed by a
line containing a zero - this extra field is the "last message sent" (which
will be updated by netproc when it is run). Here is a sample systems file for
a node called uncnsrd:
  
cat %s |uux - uncnsrd!rcit -c
Network Test
0
Gateway
0
The Room
0
   
  The rooms "Network Test", "Gateway", and "The Room" will be spooled to
the remote system. These rooms should be designated as network rooms with
the .<A>ide <E>ditRoom command.
   
  
  USING NETPROC
  
   Calling netproc with no arguments simply looks in the network/spoolin
directory for newly arrived messages, and posts them if it finds any.
   To batch new messages and send them off to a remote system, the usage
  
 netproc sysname
  
 will do outbound network processing for system "sysname". It is recommended
that you use the cron program to handle your network processing on a routine
basis automatically.  Arrange with your netneighbors for both of your systems
to batch new messages before actual polls take place, to guarantee that
messages travel across the network as quickly as possible.
   
   
  NETWORKING WITH A USENET NEWS SITE
   
   Two filters are provided that will allow a room to be equivalent to a
UseNet newsgroup. rcit, when called without the -c argument, will assume
that standard input is in the news format, and convert it before processing.
Likewise, the filter cux2ascii.c converts Citadel format to news format,
allowing you to use command lines such as
   
 cat %s |cux2ascii |uux - uunet!rnews
   
  ...the remote system need not be a Citadel/UX. By default, room names are
the same as the newsgroup names. However, if you wish the room name to be
different, you may specify so in the network/rnews.xref file. Here is a
sample of this file:
       
comp.unix.wizards,UNIX wizards
alt.drugs,Drugs and Narcotics
alt.music,Music
   
  It is rather simple, each line taking the form of newsgroupname,sysname.
There may not be any spaces in the newsgroup name, but there may be spaces
in the corresponding room name.
 
 
  USING CITADEL/UX AS YOUR LOCAL E-MAIL SYSTEM
   
   To use Citadel/UX as your local mail system, simply define the "citmail"
program as your *local* mail delivery agent.  You can plug citmail into any
popular mail routing system, including sendmail, smail, MMDF, etc.

   Once you are using citmail as your local mail delivery agent, all users
on your BBS may receive mail.  They can use addresses like
"my_user_name@yoursite.com" (note the spaces in the user's name are replaced
by underscores) or "cit1234@yoursite.com" (where 1234 is the user's user
number).
  
   Messages may be posted by mail if you have this program installed.  Simply
use the prefix "room_" -- for example, a message addressed to
"room_hot_pink_amoebas@uncnsrd.mt-kisco.ny.us would be posted in the room "Hot
Pink Amoebas" at the target system.
 
   PLEASE NOTE that for your BBS users to be able to send mail, you should
check the mailer command at the top of "netmailer.c" to be sure that it is
the correct mailer command for your system.  You might need a command like
"sendmail %s" for SMTP or "rmail %s" for UUCP.
   
     
  MAIL ALIASES
   
   The file network/mail.aliases is a simple list of aliases for the various
mailers to use. Each line takes the form
  
alias,name
  
   Obviously, neither the alias nor the name can contain commas. The name
may also be the system name "sysop", where messages sent to sysop will
be posted in the Aide> room. 
   
   
  CITADEL/UX NETWORK MAIL
   
   Citadel/UX has the ability to transport mail in a simple and
transparent fashion not unlike the way public messages are sent. Users may
enter recipient names exactly as they appear on top of messages (i.e.,
user name @ system name). In addition, mail routing is provided, allowing
users to send mail to systems which do not directly connect with their own.
   
  When entering a message in the Mail> room, a user may type a recipient
name on the local system, or on a remote system. If the recipient is not
local, citadel.c calls netmailer.c, which is a standalone program that handles
network mail.  This runs in a multithreaded mode, allowing netmailer to run in
the background while the user goes on to do something else.
 
 
  INTELLIGENT NETWORK PROCESSING AND THE MAIL.SYSINFO FILE
 
  There is (or soon will be) a file in your network directory called
"mail.sysinfo".  In earlier releases of the network software, the system
administrator had to manually configure this file.  Starting with netproc
version 2.1, the system should now create and configure the file automatically.
Note that all information may not appear in the file immediately.  When a
message arrives from a system on the network, your system will attempt to
add that system to its network map.  If the originating system is one of your
netneighbors, it will look for a systems file in the network/systems directory
to determine whether it is a valid neighbor.  If the originating system is
not a neighbor, but the message arrived via a valid neighbor, your map will
be updated accordingly, with an entry for the new system showing the next hop
to get there.
 
  So, under normal circumstances you shouldn't have to configure this file at
all.  But if you need to do something special, or if for some reason netproc
detects the topology wrong, here's how to configure mail.sysinfo.  There
are three types of entries in this file. A "use" entry tells the system which
neighbor to route a message through to get to a particular non-neighboring
system. A "bin" entry tells the system that a particular neighbor supports
net mail. If there are systems that either do not have the netmailer or are
not running Citadel/UX, but can be reached by regular electronic mail, you
can use the "uum" command. Type "uum" followed by an address (for the user
name, use a %s which will be replaced by the user name at the remote
system. Here is a sample network map, where our system is called "myself"
and all systems have Citadel/UX EXCEPT for "gateway" and "mailsys":
     
                gateway---mailsys          _____testbbs
                /                         / 
           othersys ----- myself ----- thebox
              /                          \_______theirsys
          funboard
   
   In this example, our neighbors are "othersys" and "thebox". othersys
also connects to funboard, and thebox connects to testbbs and theirsys. If
everyone supports netmail, the network/mail.sysinfo file would look like this:
   
funboard
use othersys

testbbs
use thebox

theirsys
use thebox

othersys
bin Mail

theirsys
bin Mail

gateway
uum othersys!gateway!%s

mailsys
uum othersys!gateway!mailsys!%s
   
  (Keep in mind that your file will contain additional system-generated
information.)
 
  The "bin" entries specify neighbors, the "use" entries specify routing, and
the "uum" entries specify regular UUCP mail. The method of delivery is totally
transparent to the user, who only needs to enter the recipient as user@sysname.
Note that netproc will probably stuff lots of other info into each entry.
  
    
  THE KILL FILE
   
   Tired of idiots lowering the quality of the net?  You can set up a "kill
file" in ./network/filterlist that can be used to filter out messages from
any user, room, or system (or any combination).  The three fields should be
separated by commas, and the name "*" may be used as a wildcard in any field.
Examples:
 
 # Filter out user "The Idiot" in "Idiot Room" at "idiotbbs"
 #
 The Idiot,Idiot Room,idiotbbs
 
 # Filter out the same user, but in every room
 # 
 The Idiot,*,idiotbbs
 
 # Filter out all messages from a system we don't like
 #
 *,*,idiotbbs
 
 # Filter out messages in a certain room from a certain system
 #
 *,The Room,idiotbbs
 
   You could also put a "*" wildcard in all three fields, essentially
disabling all incoming messages.  Obviously you don't want to do this.
  
 
  CONCLUSION
   
   That should cover everything you need to get running. By the way, gateway
software for StoneHenge and NYTI FordBoard systems is available upon special
request.  And, a Cit86Net gateway is now available.  For the latest version
of this program, or to leave comments/suggestions, call my board  -  
UNCENSORED! BBS at (914) 244-3252 (modem) or uncnsrd.mt-kisco.ny.us (Internet).
