                      Citadel/UX Networking Documentation
                          (A brief overview on setup)
                  Written by Steve Williams (Patriot @ pixel)


   Having come this far, you're ready to set up your networked rooms.  In
and of itself it's not too difficult.  I would suggest telnetting to
another Citadel/UX and checking out what they offer.  Currently,
uncensored.citadel.org and dogpound2.citadel.org and pixel.citadel.org
are your best bets.

Below is a list of the networked rooms (most of them) that PixelBBS
carries.  Note the ) after each room name.  This designates that room as a
networked room.

   Rooms with no new messages on Networked Rooms:
A/V Talk)  Creation/Evolution)  babylon 5)  Jokes)  Networking)
Astronomy) Books: Sci-Fi)  Food)  MP3 Universe)  TrekNet)  PaganNet)
net.Religion) Music)  Programming)  Uncensored Magic)  Politica)  Movies)
Video Games) Star Wars)  Linux)  Pets)  Swagazine)  Global Address Book)
Sports) Slimies 2000)  Science Fiction)  Sysop Stuff)  Raising Kids)
Unix) Hot Pink Amoebas)  Dreams)  Buy/Sell)  Tech Area)  Citadel
Development) Linux Today)  Citadel/UX)  Gay/Lesbian)  Of the Weird)
Magic-The Gathering) The Local Net)  Books)  Netlinks)  Software 
Questions)  SCA) Abortion) NASA News)  Misheard Lyrics)  Snausages)
Macintosh)  Gateway) Microsoft Bashing)  IGnet Unlimited)  BBS Ads)




Basically networking your citadel is a very good idea, because not only do
you have your own userbase to add to your rooms, you also have input from
every other networked Citadel/UX and some other varieties of Citadel as
well (Citadel-86, Cit:K2NE, etc), which dramatically increases the
topical posting.  So now you're saying, "Ok, I know what it is now, how do
I set the damned thing up?"  Good question. There are several steps to
take.  Actually setting up the networked rooms is simple so we'll do that
last.  The first thing you need to do is to find another network node to
share with.  The best way to do this (at this time) is to send mail to
smw@pixel.citadel.org.  For the time being I'll share my rooms with just
about anyone as I have the bandwidth currently to accomplish this.  Now,
for the step by step:


 1.  Determine from the list above (I have most of the networked rooms
     listed, however I have no idea or way of knowing how often new rooms
     will be added) or from another networked citadel, which networked rooms
     you would like.

 2.  Contact me, or the sysop on another networked citadel (login to the
     bbs and send mail to recipient Sysop), asking to share those rooms with
     you.
 
 3.  Configure your neighbor nodes with <.A>ide <S>ysconfig <N>etwork
 
 4.  Configure rooms to share with <.A>ide <N>etwork room sharing
  
 
 At this point we're all done.  Oh I admit that you might run into
 some problems, and if you do you can feel free to mail
 smw@pixel.citadel.org with the subject Citadel Problems.
 
 
  Visit PixelBBS at:pixel.citadel.org, login as bbs.
  Or, if you prefer:  http://pixel.citadel.org:2000

 -Steve Williams (Patriot)
