 
           Description of the files in the "netconfigs" directory

 These files contain a set of network configurations for a room.  They are
stored in the directory $BBSDIR/netconfigs and are named according to each
room's internal ID number.  When a room is deleted, its network configuration
file is deleted as well.
  
 The configuration file contains one or more lines of text, each line
containing a configuration option.  These lines may specify message pointers,
room sharing instructions, mailing list recipients, etc.  Fields are separated
by the vertical bar character ("|") and there will always be at least one
field on each line.
  
 
 INSTRUCTION:  lastsent
 SYNTAX:       lastsent|0000000
 DESCRIPTION:
    Defines the *local* message number of the last message in this room which
we have performed outbound network processing on.  Any batch job which sends
out messages should do stuff.
 
 
 INSTRUCTION:  listrecp
 SYNTAX:       listrecp|friko@mumjiboolean.com
 DESCRIPTION:
    Defines a recipient to whom all messages in this room should be sent.  This
is used for "list serve" applications.
 
 
 INSTRUCTION:  digestrecp
 SYNTAX:       digestrecp|friko@mumjiboolean.com
 DESCRIPTION:
    Defines a recipient to whom all messages in this room should be sent.  This
is used for "list serve" applications.  The difference between listrecps and
digestrecps is that the latter will have messages embedded inside a message
sent by the listserver.  The message will appear to be sent by the room's
e-mail address instead of the sender's e-mail address.
 
 
 INSTRUCTION:  ignet_push_share
 SYNTAX:       ignet_push_share|uncnsrd
 DESCRIPTION:
    Specifies that the second argument is the name of a neighboring node on an
IGnet (Citadel/UX networking) network, to which this room should be pushed
(spooled).  Conceptually, this node will have a corresponding record pushing
data in the other direction.
 
  
 INSTRUCTION:  subpending
 SYNTAX:       subpending|friko@mumjiboolean.com|listrecp|A234Z|1234567890
    "Subscription pending" for the specified address.  This means that
someone has requested to subscribe an e-mail address (in this case,
friko@mumjiboolean.com) to the list.  The third parameter is either "list"
or "digest" to specify a normal subscription or a digest subscription.
The fourth parameter is an authentication token which is generated by the server
and e-mailed to the specified address.  When the user comes back and supplies
this token, the subscription is complete.  The fifth parameter is a simple
timestamp, so that we may purge old records which were never confirmed.
 
 INSTRUCTION:  unsubpending
 SYNTAX:       unsubpending|friko@mumjiboolean.com|A234Z|1234567890
    Similar to the 'subpending' command, except this one is for unsubscribe
requests.  The same rules apply with regard to the token.
