This isn't an official list of plans.  It's basically just some notes on where
we want to be going.  It's something to consult when sitting down to write
some code and deciding what to work on.


Goals to achieve during the 6.xx cycle
--------------------------------------

* Address books

  Status: the current implementation has both a 'Contacts' personal
  folder and a 'Global Address Book' -- both which contain vCards.  WebCit
  can use them, and Kolab-compatible clients seem to be able to access them
  seamlessly as well.
 
  We should integrate the address books more tightly into Citadel dialogs
  such as recipient auto-completion, etc.
 
* Better UI presentation for delegated access to mailboxes.  (In IMAP this
  will be easy because of "other users namespace" support.)

* Additional LDAP integration
 
  Status: the current implementation can populate an external LDAP directory
  with Citadel user data.

* Calendar service
 
  Status: full functionlity is present in the current implementation, including
  the ability to keep a personal calendar, send/receive invitations, manage
  attendees, check free/busy times, etc.  It is fully usable via WebCit
  and also works with both Aethera and Kolab1 (vCalendar over IMAP for the
  calendar store, and vCalendar over HTTPS for checking other users' free/busy
  times).
 
  Doing CAP or WCAP seems less important now that vCalendar-over-IMAP seems
  to be the emerging standard for open source groupware.  We will monitor the
  direction the community takes and follow along.  Specifically, we will
  probably implement whatever Mozilla Calendar ends up supporting.
 
  There is also the possibility of implementing the WebDAV/XML schema exposed
  by Exchange [ http://tinyurl.com/23bcn ] which would give us transparent
  compatibility with Evolution and Entourage (but ironically, not with
  Outlook).

* Move the WebCit presentation mode from frames to CSS.
  
 
 Short-term TODO list
 --------------------
* Configuration front ends (particularly in WebCit) for the new feature
  that allows a shared room to have different names at each end of the link.
 
* Support recurring events in the calendar service.  (These currently can
  be submitted via external clients such as Aethera, but they aren't handled
  properly by WebCit and they don't show up in freebusy.)
 
* RFC 2180 compliance -- do something predictable when more than one client
  has a mailbox open and one tries to rename or delete it.  The easiest thing
  to do would be to simply deny the operation.  This should probably be done
  across the entire Citadel system rather than only in IMAP.

* Reminder: after the next non-beta version of the Citadel server is
  released, email the IMAPcopy people for inclusion on their web site.
  (Follow-up: we've done this twice now and received no answer.)
 
* Land a book deal with O'Reilly.  :)
 
 Items recently removed from TODO list
 -------------------------------------

* WebCit support for HTTP transactions performed by Kolab1 clients
  (The current WebCit build works with the Kolab1 klient, and with Aethera,
  both using HTTPS.)
 
* RFC 2739 compliance (provide calendar free/busy URL's in vCard and LDAP)
  (If anyone knows of clients that make use of this, let us know / test it)
